.\" Manpage for pesign.
.TH man 1 "10 Jan 2013" "1.2" "pesign man page"

.SH NAME
pesign \- sign and timestamp portable executable files (Windows executables)

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pesign
[OPTIONS] FILE

.SH DESCRIPTION
pesign is a Java implementation of Microsoft Authenticode that lets you sign and
timestamp executable files for Windows. It provides an alternative to native tools
like signcode/signtool on Windows or the Mono development tools on Unix systems.

pesign can use private keys and certificates in various formats, either Java keystores,
PKCS#12 keystores, or SPC/PVK files.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B -s, --keystore <FILE>
The keystore file containing the certificate and the private key used for signing
the file. pesign supports Java keystores and PKCS#12 keystores. This option must
be specified unless the keyfile and certfile options are already specified.

.TP
.B --storepass <PASSWORD>
The password to open the keystore

.TP
.B --storetype <TYPE>
The type of the keystore:
.br
- JKS    : Java keystore (.jks files)
.br
- PKCS12 : Standard PKCS#12 keystore (.p12 or .pfx files)
.br
This options is not required if the keystore has a known extension (.jks, .p12 or .pfx).

.TP
.B -a, --alias <NAME>
The alias of the certificate used for signing in the keystore. This option
is mandatory in the keystore option is specified.

.TP
.B --keypass <PASSWORD>
The password of the private key. When using a keystore, this parameter can be
omitted if the keystore shares the same password.

.TP
.B --keyfile <FILE>
The file containing the private key. Only PVK files are supported. This option
is used in combination with the certfile option.

.TP
.B -c, --certfile <FILE>
The file containing the PKCS#7 certificate chain (.p7b or .spc files). This
option is used in combination with the keyfile option.

.TP
.B -t, --tsaurl <URL>
The URL of the timestamping authority. RFC 3161 servers used for jar signing
are not compatible with Authenticode signatures. You can use the COMODO
or the Verisign services:
.br
- http://timestamp.comodoca.com/authenticode
.br
- http://timestamp.verisign.com/scripts/timstamp.dll

.TP
.B -n, --name <NAME>
The name of the application. This is an optional information embedded in the signature.

.TP
.B -u, --url <URL>
The URL of the application. This is an optional information embedded in the signature.

.TP
.B -h, --help
Print the help


.SH REPORTING BUGS
Bugs and suggestions can be reported to the project home page: http://ebourg.github.com/jsign

.SH AUTHOR
Emmanuel Bourg (ebourg@apache.org)
